{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs22 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was EinarValenResume.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.16 r1254 (released May 12 2017) on Fri Nov 22 11:13:32 2019
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs22\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl1794\margr1794\margt2028\margb3042\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs20 {---------}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 \fs20 On top of a Bachelor Degree, I have more than 25 years of professional experience from the IT industry \u8211? doing consulting and software development work - international project- and contract development in a variety of industries: IT & Electronics, Oil & Gas, Construction, Health Care, Publishing, Banking & finance, Government ... \line {} \line {} Throughout my career, I have had full software life cycle project responsibilities through requirements, analysis, design, development, implementation, documentation, user training, maintenance and management. I have had lead roles and solo assignments - working on applications such as Enterprise Portals, ERP, Logistics, Banking, Business process automation and tracking, Business Intelligence, Operations and more. \line {} \line {} I started off, programming Cobol and assembler on mainframes/minis, via 4GL and SQL I moved on to Unix, C and later Windows, Linux, C++ and Object Orientation. Since 1997 I have accrued a varied Java development experience. Over the years I have touche on many development methodologies. Waterfall based at first, later iterative, agile ones. I have international work experience from the US, Scandinavia, UK and Australia. I am fluent in English and Scandinavian and also used to speak some German. \line {} \line {} I am used to high paced, high pressured, work situations. - I am easy to work with and do well in mentoring and lead roles. My communication and documentation skills are very good. I like a challenge, I am creative and can think outside the box, and I push myself hard to deliver quality results on time.\par
\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Expertise\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 1.1  Programming Languages\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{Java, C++}{} {Advanced}{C/C++, Ruby, SQL, HTML, bash}{} {Intermediate}{Javascript, Python, Go, D, Cobol, Assembler, Awk}{} {Basic}{Groovy, Fortran, Pascal}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.2  Databases\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Advanced}{Oracle, DB2, MySQL/MariaDB}{} {Intermediate}{PostgreSQL, Teradata, Netezza, SQL-Server}{} {Basic}{CoachDB, MongoDB}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.3  Operating Systems\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{ Linux }{} {Advanced}{ AIX, Solaris, HP-UX }{} {Intermediate}{Windows}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.4  C++ APIs\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Advanced}{ Poco C++ Libraries }{} {Basic}{ZeroMq, Qt, Boost}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.5  DevOps Tools\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{Maven, Puppet, Git}{} {Advanced}{Ant, Subversion, Make, VirtualBox }{} {Intermediate}{VMware, Jira, Confluence, Jenkins, Docker}{} {Basic}{Vagrant}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.6  Java APIs\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{ Spring Framework, Servlets, JDBC, EJB}{} {Advanced}{JPA, JMS, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Cxf, Axis}{} {Intermediate}{Hibernate, Play Framework, Ebean, Netty, JAXB, Jmx, Awt, Velocity}{} {Basic}{Portlets, JAAS, Struts, Swing }{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.7  Backend Technology\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{SOA, jBoss, Tomcat, WebSphere AS, OpenMq}{} {Advanced}{ Jetty, ActiveMq, WebSphere-Mq}{} {Intermediate}{Mule/ESB, WebSphere PS, IBM Content Manager, OC4J}{} {Basic}{WebLogic, Oracle Access manager}{}\par
\page
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.8  WEB Technology\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Advanced}{REST, SOAP, XML, HTML, Json, Javascript}{} {Intermediate}{CSS, Dojo, Httpd, JSP, SAML}{} {Learning}{AngularJS}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.9  Testing Tools\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{jUnit}{} {Advanced}{Googletest(C++), Easymock, Mocito}{} {Intermediate}{Valgrind, Cucumber}{}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.10  Development methods\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Expert}{Test-Driven-Development}{} {Advanced}{Scrum, Data Modelling}{} {Intermediate}{UML, Kanban}{}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Education\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {1983-1985}{Business College}{{\i H\u248?gskulen i Telemark}}{Norway}{\line {}"H\u248?gskolekandidat IT", US equivalent: B.A. Computer Science}{Major in IT, minor in Marketing\line {}{www.hit.no/english}} {1979,1986}{University}{{\i University of Bergen}}{Norway}{\line {}Undergraduate level cources}{in IT and business\line {}{www.uib.no/en}} {1980-1981}{Military academy}{{\i Sj\u248?forsvarets Gymnastikkskule}}{Norway}{\line {}Navy officer}{Major in PE\line {}{www.mil.no/sjo/start}}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Certifications\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {2007}{Sun Certified Business Component Developer (SCBCD)} {2002}{Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP)} {2001}{IBM WebSphere Application Server Specialist}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 4  Courses\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {2010}{Clean code with Robert C Martin} {2009}{MuleESB} {2004}{IBM WebSphere Studio Application Developer 5} {2002}{IBM DB2 Content Manager & Enterprise Information Portal 7.2} {2002}{IBM WebSphere Portal Server 4.1} {}{...}\par
\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 5  Employment\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 5.1  Vocational\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {08.05-present}{Software Engeneer}{{\scaps Self employed}}{Norway} {\line {}{www.einarvalen.com}} {Clients: Evry (software services), Tv2 (media), Intelcom (software), Bergen kommune (government), Nav (social security), Norsk Eiendomsinformasjon (software services) DnB (finance), Watts Water Technology, Statens Vegvesen. } {10.03-07.05}{Chief Consultant}{{\scaps Ementor}}{Norway} {\line {}{www.ementor.com}} {Contract software development for clients: DnB (banking), Ren(energy).} {11.00-10.03}{Senior Consultant}{{\scaps Spherion Technology}}{Phoenix, AZ, USA} {\line {}{www.spherion.com}} {Software development for clients: American Express, ADOT (government), Kaiser Permanente (health care) Boston Market (catering)} {08.99-10.00}{Software Engineer}{{\scaps Scase}}{Norway} {\line {}{www.scase.no}} {Software development in-house and for clients. Clients: Haukeland sykehus (health care), Norcem (construction), Gilde (food industry).} {10.93-10.99}{Senior Consultant}{{\scaps i-Com}}{Norway} {\line {}{Out of business}} {Roles: Project manager, Product manager, Software development. Clients: Statoil (oil and gas), Hewlett&Packard} {10.91-10.93}{Systemplanlegger}{{\scaps City of Bergen}}{Norway} {\line {}{www.bergen.kommune.no}} {Roles: IT manager, project manager.} {07.85-10.91}{Consultant, Senior Consultant}{{\scaps Datatjenester}}{Norway} {\line {}{Out of business}} {Software development in-house and for clients. Clients: Mobil Oil, Capelen (publisher)} \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 5.2  Miscellaneous\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {07.82-10.82}{Instructor}{{\scaps Skilltrec -School of Hill Skills}}{NSW, Australia} {\line {}{Out of business}} {Skiinstruction} {07.79-06.82}{Fenrik (2nd lieutenant)}{{\scaps Norwegian armed forces}}{Physical training officer} {\line {}{forsvaret.no}} {}\par
\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 6  Resent Assignments\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {01.10.19-21.11.19 - project was stopped}{ATEA}{Norway}{}{\endash  Nordic IT infrastructure company } { Java development. Making a working prototype ready for microservices cloud deployment and continous delivery. \line {}{\b Technology:} Spring Boot, Docker, Azure DevOps, Terraform, Vault, Consul, PostgreSQL \line {}{\b URL:} {www.atea.com} \line {}{\b Reference:} Tore Pehrsson, tore.pehrsson@atea.no +47 982 16 523 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {02.15-present}{Statens Vegvesen}{Norway}{}{\endash  Norwegian Public Roads Administration} { DevOps assignment: - Devloping automation solutions for provisioning of Linux and Window servers, setup of Tomcat-, Httpd and datasources, - selfservice application deploy and secrets handling. Including also a set of supporting services. \line {}{\b Technology:} RHEL, Apache Http-server, Tomcat, Mcollective/ActiveMq, Puppet, Bash, Groovy, Ruby, Python, Javascript/Typescript, Angular, D, Go, Java, MariaDB, Oracle, Git, Docker \line {}{\b URL:} {www.vegvesen.no/en/Home} \line {}{\b Reference:} Geir Hestad, geir.hestad@vegvesen.no +47 474 14 626 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {09.14-01.15}{Watts Water Technologies}{Amsterdam, Netherlands}{}{\endash  Manufacturing} { Data integration for Data Mart project and Master Data Management project. \line {}{\b Technology:} Global manufacturing enterprise, Paralell-databases,Netezza, SQL, IBM-Information Server, WebSphere, Datastage, MDM, Datawarehouse \line {}{\b URL:} {www.wattswater.com} \line {}{\b Reference:} Tore Pehrsson, tore.pehrsson@intelcom.no +47 982 16 523 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {04.14-10.14}{DnB}{Norway}{}{\endash  Banking} { Analysis and tuning of Teradata sql-scripts in performance critical ETL jobs. \line {}{\b Technology:} Financial corporation, Paralell-databases, Teradata, SQL, Datastage, Datawarehouse \line {}{\b URL:} {www.dnb.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Henning Larsen, henning.larsen@intelcom.no +47 986 90 548 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {04.14-08.14}{Intelcom}{Norway}{}{\endash  Software} { Helped transition C++ project into Test-Driven-Development - writing C++ unit tests and mentoring project team in TDD. Also aided in Java-EE backend architecture assessment. \line {}{\b Technology:} C++, google-test, Poco, Java-EE \line {}{\b URL:} {www.intelcom.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} gaute Heimstad, gaute.heimstad@intelcom.no +47 982 172 34 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {09.13-03.14}{Norsk Eiendomsinformasjon}{Norway}{}{\endash  Software services} { Development of a WebService API for internal and commersial use. \line {}{\b Technology:} Java, Play framework, Ebean, SQL, Linux, Soap web services. \line {}{\b URL:} {www.eiendomsinfo.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Terje Samdal tsa@eiendomsinfo.no + 47 915 38 171, Martin Borthen, mbo@eiendomsinfo.no +47 563 311 60 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {02.13-07.13}{Evry Financial Services}{Norway}{}{\endash  Software services} { Bank system development. Hired to augment a team of developers rewriting an outdated Cobol based banking back-end to Java. \line {}{\b Technology:} Java, Spring, Camel, Soap Web-Services, Oracle DB, JPA, Jms, WebsphereMq, Git \line {}{\b URL:} {www.evry.com/it-services/financial-services} \line {}{\b Reference:} Geir Willy Rogde, gwrogde@gmail.com +47 932 877 71, Jon Harald \u216?ymyr, Jon.Harald.Oymyr@evry.com> +47 957 23475 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {11.12-01.13}{TV2}{Norway}{}{\endash  media} { Part of a team, assembled by Evry, to suggest, prototype and evaluate various software architecture scenarios for a new software platform for the TV network. \line {}{\b Technology:} Java, JEE, Spring, ActiveMq, Camel, Mule, Glassfish, Jetty, Jms, Rest (JAX-RS), RSS, Oracle XMLDB, Xquery, RDF, Jena \line {}{\b URL:} {www.tv2.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Sandvik Oddmar, Oddmar.Sandvik@evry.com +47 954 956 10 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {01.12-10.12}{Intelcom}{Norway}{}{\endash  IT\rquote } { Development team coaching and software architecture. Helped select, and built the foundation software architecture for the new generation of their iKnow software. Trained the team in Test Driven Development, new tool-set and Scrum agile methodology. \line {}{\b Technology:} Java, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Git, Maven, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Rest, Netty, C++, Poco, ZeroMq, Javascript, Dojo \line {}{\b URL:} {www.intelcom.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Tore Pehrsson, tore.pehrsson@intelcom.no +47 982 165 23 }\par
\page
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {09.07-01.12}{City of Bergen}{Norway}{}{\endash  Local government} { Contract development for the city government IT department, establishing an open source based platform for Service Oriented Architecture: \line {}{\b URL:} {www.bergen.kommune.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Steinar Carlsen, Steinar.Carlsen@bergen.kommune.no +47 926 994 43 \line {}{\b Technology:} Enterprise Java, Spring, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Git, Maven, Linux, Jboss, OpenMq, Mule, Oracle, Apache, Grails \line {}{\b Technical lead developer roles for following sub-assignments:} {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Legacy systems integration (ldap, ftp, jdbc, jms, ssh, pop, soap, rest), \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Federated Single Sign On (saml, pki, Altin, Minid, Oracle Access Manager), \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Business process automation (SOA), \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Safe end-to-end transport of classified information (SSL/TLS, Java Cryptography Architecture), \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Safe electronic communication channels between city-government and citizen, \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Operations monitoring (jmx, HpOpenView) \par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi340 {03.07-10.07}{NAV}{Norway}{}{\endash  Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration} { Contracting development \u8211? solo assignment - upgrading the clients corporate web application development framework. \line {}{\b Technology:} JMX, Single Sign On, SAML, Sun iPlanet Federation Manager, Servlets, JSP, EJBs, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Maven, jUnit, Python scripting, Test driven development \line {}{\b URL:} {www.nav.no} \line {}{\b Reference:} Ida Kristine D\u248?rum, Ida.Kristine.Dorum@nav.no +47 94334486 }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {12.03-03.07}{DnB}{Norway}{}{\endash  On-line Banking} { Contracting for a team developing a corporate on-line banking Enterprise Java application. Iterative full cycle development \u8211? from spec to production. My primary focus was on WebSphere to mainframe connectivity (integration). \line {}{\b Technology:} On-line Banking Portal, Mainframe legacy, systems integration, WebSphere Admin, J2EE development, JMS, MQ-Series, JDBC, DB2, SQL, XML, jDom, Axis, WebServices, JCA, CCF, Security, jUnit, Log4J, JavaScript, html, jhtml \line {}{\b URL:} {www.dnb.no/en/business} \line {}{\b Reference:} Tore Frekahug, Tore.Frekhaug@dnbnor.no +47 975 825 65 }\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 7  Languages\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {English}{Fluent}{} {Norwegian}{Fluent}{Mothertongue} {German}{Basic}{Rusty conversational}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 8  Interests\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Ice Hockey}{Alpine Skiing} {Kayaking}{Programming}\par
}}
